---
layout: post
title: Weeks 5 & 6
---

This post covers weeks 5 and 6 of my DREU experience (again, more like weeks 4 and 5 due to the conference earlier in the summer). This is a combined post due to some recent busy-ness that I'll describe in the body of the post!

Over the past two weeks, in my work at Michigan, I've still been focused primarily on getting the bones of some interventions set up, firstly to support codesign, but also to be transformed into actual interventions in the very near future. As I am writing this, I've gotten structural functionality for 4 of the 5 we are considering: camera aiming, checking photo quality, cross-checking model outputs (ex: is this right), and debugging model outputs (approaching an output the user is pretty sure is wrong and interrogating why that might be). I am almost done with our fifth and final one, which is about surfacing unknown-unknowns (identifying and pointing out aspects of an image that the user might not know are there that could interfere with the accuracy/understandability of their tool use). This one is a bit different than the others, as it would likely need to run automatically rather than get triggered by a user—it wouldn't make very much sense to expect a user to ask for a task to run when that task only exists under the assumption they don't necessarily know the need for the task is present in their current environment. I've spent the last little while playing with how inputs to other interventions could give this intervention necessary fuel or content to check for unknown patterns with, and am currently trying to work with the iOS filesystem to keep this information both secure and accessible where needed in the app; with any luck, I'll make some headway on that this afternoon.

We also had our first codesign session this past Monday, which the prepared interventions for camera aiming, quality checking, and cross checking got used in. Unfortunately, because the IRB process was being slow and adding me to it had not yet been approved, I wasn't able to attend this particular session, but the feedback the members of our team who did attend got is pretty promising, and I've been using it in the development of future interventions.

We did run into one system snag, which is a bug with Apple's Voiceover (the screen reader for iPhone) that prevents adding actions to automations while Voiceover is on. This is pretty unfortunate, since the ability of our end users to run actions automatically hinges on this bug being fixed, but more than that, it renders an iPhone feature that is pretty highlighted by the company itself inaccessible, so it was pretty disappointing to see.  We've reported it and hopefully it will be fixed soon, and in the meantime, we've been thinking about the best ways to make the interventions that would work non-automatically function best.

Beyond my direct work on the Michigan project, I've also had a couple exciting research or research adjacent opportunities come up over the past couple weeks that I've spent a fair bit of time on.

The first of these was writing an article for the Labz section of ACM XRDS, which is the ACM student magazine. Labz is a section that highlights a lab and the work they do, and I wrote about HAIL (which as a reminder, is the lab I'm currently a part of at Michigan). Specifically, I discussed the VISIONS event we were part of in June and the impact that had both in terms of fostering community engagement/involvement and presenting deployed solutions to real world accessibility problems. Both of these things are very important to HAIL's research philosophy, so it was really special to be able to showcase them like this. I recieved a lot of support in making this happen from both Jaylin (the PhD student I'm working with) and Anhong (my PI at Michigan), which I'm very grateful for. I'm so excited to see it go to print in the September issue of XRDS!

In addition to this article, I had the opportunity to submit a demo paper to ACM ASSETS (the flagship ACM conference for accessibility work). I collaborated on this with the lab from University of Washington that I worked with in summer 2022. Though for anonymity reasons I won't elaborate a ton on this paper, it covered a Hackfest project I had done over there about embroidery for the creation of accessible, tactile, read-aloud children's books, as well as an improved iteration done by some current UW undergrads based on observations of storytelling practices in the blind community. I was so fortunate to be able to act as lead author on this: managing not only the majority of the writing, but also the whole submission process. It was a lot of work, especially over the tight timeframe I did it over (started the paper process on Thursday June 27 and it was due on Wednesday July 3, which is why I didn't blog last weekend: I was too busy writing it!). Naturally, I hope it gets in, as that would validate the hard work I put in, strengthen my upcoming grad school application, and allow me to attend ASSETS and network with a lot of big names in the accessibility community who I'd like to work with going forward. However, even if it doesn't make it this time, I still believe it was a great experience in which I learned a lot and think it will make me more prepared for an academic future.

In this coming week, I'll be turning my sights and focus back to my Michigan project exclusively, hopefully turning some of my mockup interventions into more fully functional iterations to get prepared for further codesign and user study work and a hopeful CHI submission. Check back next weekend for updates on this experience!

[Back to blog](https://seehorne.github.io/blog/)
