---
layout: post
title: Week 1 & 2
---

Since this site was still under construction during week 1, this will be a combined post for weeks 1 and 2 of my DREU experience.

The first two weeks of my DREU experience have been a whirlwind!

My first day was Tuesday, May 28, which started with meeting the PhD student, Jaylin, who I would be working with. We got coffee, did some logistical tasks like getting me keys and access cards for the lab space, and talked about the previous work leading up to the current project so that we could start exploring potential directions. After that, I read some of the papers that came up in the previous work discussion that I'd yet to see because they were still in submission, and looked into getting some trainings done so that I could be added to an eventual IRB.

The next day is when the work started in earnest. In the morning, we did some brainstorming with affinity diagrams for potential problem spaces the work could fit in and started thinking about some technical approaches. The project is rooted in app development on the technical side, so we looked into how we might be able to leverage the Shortcuts framework on iOS. In the afternoon, we brought these ideas to a meeting with Anhong and started fleshing out what the project could be and where we could make a novel contribution a bit further. It was a very exciting space to be part of, and I felt like we got a lot done. After the meeting, we had some ideas for the kinds of literature we'd need to be exploring, so I got to work reading, collecting and taking notes on papers for that, as well as doing some feasability testing with the Shortcuts on iPhone to see what capabilities we could take advantage of.

Feasability testing and doing the literature search made up the bulk of what I did for the rest of week 1 and into week 2. By the end of Monday, I had found and read 36 related papers and was much more familiar with iOs Shortcuts—they are much more expressive than I anticipated! On Monday, we also had a joint lab meeting between HAIL and the Life Long Learning lab, where we talked about a sprints system to get summer projects ready to be turned into CHI papers by September. The first step is a pre-paper talk where we think about the story of our paper as if it were already done and what it would contribute, so I also began to think about what would be necessary to get that ready.

On Tuesday of week 2, I transitioned towards getting a bit of development experience with Swift, since that will be necessary to ultimately build the app. I got acquainted with the general syntax as well as how to use AppIntents to link an app in development to Shortcuts, and using local deployment to test. Since we're in the Blind/Low Vision Space, I also practiced with Voiceover (the native screen reader on iOS), since many of our app's users will likely be using Voiceover when they use our app so it is important to understand how they might interact.

Wednesday was a bit different because our lab was presented at an event called [Visions](https://aadl.org/visions), which is an event the Ann Arbor Public Library put on for assistive technology and disability services in Michigan. It was a lot like [CSUN](https://w2.csun.edu/cod/conference), just on a smaller scale. HAIL had a booth that I helped with where we talked about the research we do and recruited participants for future studies, and Anhong and Jaylin also gave a talk. You can read more about our involvement [here](https://guoanhong.com/visions.html) (there are also some fun pictures). It was really great experience: I got to meet a bunch of new people and we got some great recruitment that will likely be useful for the study we hope to run later this summer.

On Thursday, all focus turned back to the project and we started to think very seriously about the project's framing for the pre-paper talk. Jaylin and I did some independent brainstorming and then came together to sync on it before meeting in the afternoon with Anhong. The project is becoming increasingly well scoped, though we are still exploring various potential ways to frame the story, which will be important because it'll influence our study design.

Today I am going to the airport to fly to Buffalo, New York for [ISLS](https://2024.isls.org/) where I will be running a workshop about the research I did last summer with Carnegie Mellon. It will be super nice to get to see some of the folks I worked with in person again, and it will be my first time being a real speaker (aside from poster presentations) at a conference. Because I'm traveling today, I worked from home in the morning, writing some sample abstracts to continue exploring ways to frame our project for the pre-paper talk (which Jaylin will give because I am gone at ISLS, but I still hope to contribute to) and developing some early storyboards for our app's functionality. 

Next week's post will probably have a fair bit about ISLS, but hopefully will also have some good project updates! Check back for more at the end of next week!!

[Back to blog](https://seehorne.github.io/blog/)
