---
layout: post
title: Week 8 & 9
---

This post is a combined post, which covers weeks 8 and 9 of my DREU. 

A fair bit has happened within the last two weeks! 

As I mentioned in my last post, on Tuesday of week 8, we had another codesign session. Since we are doing codesign with 2 participants, we decided to use the same protocol we had used with the first participant in this session, which was a think aloud protocol designed to get feedback on our ideas for interventions and potential ways to surface them. We got some very valuable feedback which has informed our development decisions going forward.

The use of a think aloud protocol also meant we didn't end up needing to use the app itself in this particular session, which was fortunate, as I discovered some differences between the Swift debugging build (which I had been using to write code and test it) and the release build that would be used to put an app on Testflight for an outside user. Unfortunately, this difference impacted the functionality of the app while it is in the background (audio, API calls, etc.), and caused them to not function very well, if at all. Since a central purpose of the app is to augment the functionality of existing assitive technology apps, the app spends a lot of time in the background, so these problems would have been very detrimental to testing the app at the time. As a result, I switched my build when writing and testing build to also be a release build, which made debugging more challenging, but also helped me be sure that I'm building something that would work on an actual user's device. I spent the majority of my time in week 8, and even some of early week 9, on the quest to debug these issues—aside from attending and taking notes in the Tuesday codesign session, spending a little time on Friday doing some initial coding of the codesign transcripts, and doing some writing of a draft systems section on Monday before I knew the bugs existed, this debugging consumed pretty much all of my time at work for the week. If I'm being completely honest, this was a pretty frustrating process, but I recognize that it is part of the technical side of CS research, and an important one at that. It didn't feel great to not have a ton of concrete accomplishments for the week, but these things needed to be fixed for the project to accomplish what it claimed to, so it was still important.

Fortunately, by early in week 9, the bugs were resolved. After spending a week on them, this felt very good, and meant I could move on to other aspects of the project. This started with finishing up the first qualitative coding pass on the codesign transcripts, and then proceeded to creating system diagrams for each of our envisioned interventions, so we can start envisioning how everything could come together. Then, on Wednesday, we had a final all in-person project meeting, since my PI, Anhong, is going to China until mid-August, at which point I will no longer be in Ann Arbor. At this meeting, we talked about the current status of everything for the project, ideas for  and longer term plans leading up to a CHI submission in September. This discussion included evaluation methods beyond codesign as well as what it would look like to use codesign as a main method, and relatedly, how we will want to frame the work in the paper we will write.

After that meeting, I worked on implementing some of the technical points we discussed in the meeting (like making the interventions we have use algorithms from existing literature, and making there be sounds to tell a user something is processing when they make an API call), and also worked on making some slides for a presentation about my work this summer so far, which I gave to the AHA (Accessibility, Health, and Aging) group on Friday. This group is pretty informal and not huge, so the presentation was low stakes, but was still very good practice talking about my research.

Sometime next week, we are starting the next round of codesign, this time featuring a prototype app. I'm looking forward to seeing what people think of what I've made so far! I'm excited for what my last couple weeks of DREU have in store, but it feels crazy how fast this all has flown by!

[Back to blog](https://seehorne.github.io/blog/)
