---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

I've now completed my 3rd (kinda) week at University of Michigan! I was actually in Buffalo, NY for the majority of this week at the International Society of the Learning Sciences Annual Meeting—also for research, but from last summer—for the majority of this week, so I have some things to say about that, but I also have some updates from my DREU project so here, I will talk about both.

Starting by talking about ISLS, I went in a little unsure. This is my first conference that wasn't directed at a primarily computing audience that I've ever attended, so I was a little worried about how the work I was going to present might land. The work I did was mainly qualitative, so it didn't really require a ton of computing background to understand, but there was still the worry of it not being or compelling/landing with people. Fortunately, it was a success! I ran a workshop called "The Hidden Majority" on ISLS community day. We had ~20 participants, and had some excellent conversations about the role of technology in the inaccessibility crisis facing K-12 education. You can read more about my experience on my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/ellie-seehorn_it-was-such-a-joy-to-present-the-workshop-activity-7206765778077913089-7w3y?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop)

Also at ISLS, I was a conference volunteer. This was a new experience for me, and I found it super valuable because it taught me a lot about how conferences work behind the scenes. I hope to attend many more conferences in the future, so I am incredibly grateful for this experience!

I came back to Ann Arbor to start back at Michigan on Thursday and got immediately back to work. The major action item was preparing a presentation that I will give tomorrow (Monday) as part of a CHI prep series my lab is doing to ensure everyone planning to submit to CHI in September is on a good timeline to do so. This week is a pre-paper talk, which basically telling the story of the paper as if it is already done, to see if the story we intend to tell is compelling or if it needs more tweaks to have the potential to be something exciting. In addition to getting ready for this, I continued work on ideating possible interventions for our app to facilitate. Next week, I will start some rudimentary development, mostly focusing on transitions between existing apps and ours, to get ready for a co-design session the week after next.

I am looking forward to what is to come with this project—check back for updates at the end of next week!
