---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

Though due to the conference I went to in early June, this is more like my third week of project work, it has been 4 weeks since my DREU with the Human-AI Lab at University of Michigan began! This week, I spent the majority of my time getting working on the technical aspect of my DREU project—a Swift app for iOS.

A lot of my work this week was independent, as my PhD student mentor was at a conference Monday-Thursday. During this time, I got acquainted with the basics of Swift (the development language for iOS native apps). This was my first time in a while using a new programming lanaguage, so the first day or so was a lot of figuring out syntax, but I began to get more comfortable pretty quickly—especially with the AppIntents side of things, which will be important for this project because they allow the app to interface with Shortcuts. I still have a lot to learn and am by no means an expert iOS developer, but I was able to get some basic data transfers, file management, Siri integration, user-facing transitions, and UI accessibility going, so I'm pleased with the start I've gotten off to.

Outside of project work this week, I had the chance to attend a thesis defense by one of the PhD students in my lab, Lei. Though I've not worked with Lei super closely, it was a great experience to get to see the culmination of his PhD work, and I left feeling very impressed and inspired. I knew a lot of work goes into a PhD, which can feel daunting to think about and surely also daunting to try to do, but I am nonetheless excited at the possibility of having a real body of work of my own just a few years in the future (should I be successful in the grad school cycle, fingers crossed!)

Looking to the future (and back to the project), we will hopefully be starting codesign sessions soon, so my next step is to take the app I've developed and hone it towards more of a mockup of an intended final product by setting up some minimum viable product versions of potential features like camera aiming, model result explanation, and unknown unknown surfacing. While turning these into fully realized features will come after at very least the first codesign session, I hope the mockup versions will be useful in guaging what types of interactions users will respond best to.
