---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

This post is about the 7th week of my DREU experience, during which I focused a lot on bringing the MVP versions of interventions I've been working on into actual functioning versions.

This process involved a couple different things. 

The first, and the one I'm currently furthest with, is connecting via SSH to a server to facilitate API requests for the interventions that are more post-hoc (like cross checking or debugging). I spent much of the week modifying my Swift code to handle passing images and queries through this server to the OpenAI API, and adding Python code to the server to handle those requests effectively. Part of this process also required some prompt engineering to get results close in format to what we were hoping for.

For other interventions that are live and benefit from high speed (like camera aiming), we plan to use computer-vision specific models rather than something generalized like OpenAI. We are still deciding which model to use, but we currently have YOLO installed with the app, since it is very fast, lightweight enough to run on device, and had been used in previous projects so there was existing infrastructure for it.

Next week, we resume codesign. The first codesign session of the week will be Tuesday afternoon, and I am quite excited for it because now I am on the IRB and will be able to attend and participate. Potentially, we will do more codesign sessions later in the week.

In the upcoming week, I will continue to work on the technical side/programming, informed by insights gained in the codesign session. Check back next weekend, for when I write more about it!

