---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

This post is about week 10 of my DREU, which was the penultimate week of my DREU at University of Michigan. It's hard to believe how fast it has gone by!

Though initially, we had planned to do a codesign session sometime during this week, scheduling unfortunately didn't allow for that, and the meeting is scheduled for Wednesday of the upcoming week. We've also scheduled a session for the week following, which I won't be there in person for, but still hope to attend since the sessions have been over Zoom anyways. Though it would've been cool to have a session this week, things like this are just kinda part of human centered research—when you're working with others, especially those outside your research team, you don't necessarily have complete control over your schedule and pacing. 

However, since the next two sessions are going to be about working with a prototype of the app we are developing, this delay of session isn't necessarily a bad thing, because it allows for a little more time for the app to be prepared. I spent most of this week working on the cross-check/verification feature, which aims to allow a blind/visually impaired user to verify the output of an AI model an existing assitive technology app produces (or any app for that matter, but we've mainly been thinking about assistive technology apps as the use case). Based on feedback from previous codesign sessions, part of what was previously the "surface-unknown" task (checking if there are duplicates of a relevant item) has also been encapsulated in this (since the process that triggering it independently or automatically would entail was read as spying). 

Though a naive implementation of this "verify" feature is pretty simple (take a photo, ask what to verify, ask an LLM if its right) was pretty straightforward to create, I've been working on a more advanced version that draws on existing literature for techniques and tries to augment them. The literature grounded approach involves taking the aforementioned image and verification request, generating smaller questions to verify individual pieces, and passing those pieces to an LLM to answer. We add on to this by passing the verification questions to multiple LLMs, as well as identifying which questions could be potentially answered by non-generative tools like optical character recognition or object recognition, and "answering" the questions that way too when possible. Then, once all the responses are collected, each answer source gets a vote towards correct or incorrect, and we present the user with the winning answer. This allows our tool to protect against an individual LLM or AI answer source hallucinating, and will hopefully produce a more nuanced and accurate answer than the naive implementation. 

In my final week, alongside preparing for the codesign session, I plan to continue developing this feature to make it as strong as possible for the paper we hope to submit in September. This includes more code work of course, but will also entail making a plan for benchmarking the efficacy of the algorithm that makes up the code, which will hopefully demonstrate its efficacy and accuracy.

[Back to blog](https://seehorne.github.io/blog/)
